---
layout: post
title: "Projects"
date: "2017-05-25"
---

The hard part is starting, so let's get it out of the way. 

I'm working on something. Or several things, actually. I planted vegetable seeds early this month - kind of a late, but sometimes I find myself trapped in clichés and it bothers me, so I do something about it. Namely, I've been going on, for a while, about my lack of a green thumb. "Kill everything I touch," I say jokingly. "If you ever need a plant assassin, I'm your guy." If I step back from those comments, I realize they encapsulate what I find least appealing in some people: that resignation of their own shortcomings. Call me naive, but I think a good rule of thumb is that people are generally much more capable than they would have themselves believe. 

So what's the remedy? I think it's taking whatever you think you're not good at and giving it a shot. And doing so without a hint of self-defeatism going in. I planted some tomatoes, peppers and onions across 11 planters and a few weeks later, here I am with 82% populated by sprouts averaging 2 inches tall. I talk to them like they're children. Or pets. Though I should note I also talk to pets like they are children. 

Will they die? It's possible. There is a long way to go before they bear fruit, but I'm determined. And if they die? Well I'll plant again. Until I get it right. 

I also finally earned my Associate's Degree. Now, I'll be the first to hand-wave that as something probably lacking importance, like graduating from middle school, yet I can't help but acknowledge I'm quite happy about finally closing that small chapter. For various reasons, it's taken many years for me to reach this point and I've essentially reached a half-way mark in an overarching goal. While they say a degree isn't important anymore, I don't care. It's a goal I intend to reach.

Here's what I'm working on over the next few months:
* an untitled web app based on a clue-pursuit kind of game
* an e-commerce website for a homemade crafts company
* updating my own site
* building something like this [thundercloud](http://www.richardclarkson.com/cloud/)

The commonality between all of these projects is that I'm more or less out of my element on each one, so the learning potential is huge. Now if I can just get out of bed in the mornings.

* reading: IQ84 - Harukai Murakami
* listening to: Help Me Lose My Mind - Disclosure
* using: noisli.com

Until next time.

-Shaun
