---
layout: post
title: "Simply Searching"
date: "2018-01-06"
---

This is the first in a multi-part post about algorithms. Very recently, I began studying algorithm concepts. Even if I end up in a field where in-depth knowledge is not required, understanding at least some ideas will have an overall effect of improving my skills. I've had brief, albeit fruitless, introductions to the topic of algorithms before, but I believe my mistake was in starting too early. It's tough to make sense of introductory concepts, like binary search or selection sort, if you find the code hard to follow. Having nearly a year of coding practice under my belt in no way makes me an expert, probably not even an intermediate, but I definitely feel comfortable stretching my muscles a bit.

Before I dive in, let's ask the question "What is an algorithm?" The word is thrown around a lot, especially in TV drama plotlines where it seems to reference extremely complicated pieces of software or some kind of hacking. The basic answer is this: an algorithm is a set of instructions. If you've ever cooked a meal following a recipe or constructed a coffee table from Ikea, you've used an algorithm. In terms of computers, an algorithm really boils down to the set of steps a computer takes to perform *some* action.

Here's a starting example using simple search: determining the largest number in a list of values.
We'll use just two numbers, 1 and 2, or in an array ``[1, 2]``.

In code it looks something like this (keep in mind there are a few ways to do this):

```javascript
let arrayOfNumbers = [1, 2];
let largestNumber;

for(let i = 0; i < arrayOfNumbers.length; i++){
  if(arrayOfNumbers[i] > largestNumber){
    largestNumber = arrayOfNumbers[i];
  }
}
```
So what's happening here?

Our set of numbers is stored in the variable ``arrayOfNumbers``, which is an array.
The variable ```largestNumber``` is declared, but is left undefined.
The for loop is set to run only a long as the number of values in the array. In this case, the for loop will run twice. Each time it does so, an if statement asks a question:

Is the ith element of ```arrayOfNumbers``` greater than the currently assigned value to ```largestNumber```?

* Yes?: Assign the value of the ith element to the variable ```largestNumber```
* No?: There no instructions, so exit the if statement and loop again if needed.

In BigO notation this operation would be O(n). Since it's necessary to look at every number in the array to compare them, each item added to the array increases the operation by n times, where n is the number of elements in the array.

Seeing an algorithm, even a simple one, broken down in such a way makes it less intimidating. This is a confidence booster, and something I took with me as I went into another challenge: determining if a word is a palindrome (a future post will be linked here).

Algorithms can be complex, but like anything, breaking the idea down in digestible chunks makes it easier to swallow.

That's all for now. Thanks for reading.

* Listening to: Навернопотомучто - Время и Стекло (Probably because by Vremya i Steklo)
* Reading: Failure to Adjust
* Playing: Sniper Elite 4
